Learn all you need to know about 3D printing in 30 minutes or less. Whether you are just getting started or you’re an experienced engineer, you’ll find this guide packed with useful tips and information - updated for 2020.

3D Printing

Every 3D printer builds parts based on the same main principle: a digital model is turned into a physical three-dimensional object by adding material a layer at a time. This where the alternative term Additive Manufacturing comes from. 3D printing is a fundamentally different way of producing parts compared to traditional subtractive or formative manufacturing technologies. In 3D printing, no special tools are required. Instead the part is manufactured directly onto the built platform layer-by-layer, which leads to a unique set of benefits and limitations.

The process always begins with a digital 3D model - the blueprint of the physical object. This model is sliced by the printer's software into thin, 2-dimensional layers and then turned into a set of instructions in machine language (G-code) for the printer to execute.

From here, the way a 3D printer works varies by process. For example, desktop FDM printers melt plastic filaments and lay it down onto the print platform through a nozzle. Large industrial SLS machines use a laser to melt (or sinter) thin layers of metal or plastic powders.

The available materials also vary by process. Plastics are by far the most common, but metals can also be 3D printed. The produced parts can also have a wide range of specific physical properties, ranging from optically clear to rubber-like objects.

Depending on the size of the part and the type of printer, a print usually takes about 4 to 18 hours to complete. 3D printed parts are rarely ready-to-use out of the machine though. They often require some post-processing to achieve the desired level of surface finish. These steps take additional time and (usually manual) effort.

The ISO/ASTM 52900 standard categorized all different types of 3D printing under one of these seven groups:
1.
Material Extrusion (FDM)
Material is selectively dispensed through a nozzle or orifice
2.
Vat Polymerization (SLA & DLP)
Liquid photopolymer in a vat is selectively cured by UV light
3.
Powder Bed Fusion (SLS, DMLS & SLM)
A high-energy source selectively fuses powder particles
4.
Material Jetting (MJ)
Droplets of material are selectively deposited and cured
5.
Binder Jetting (BJ)
Liquid bonding agent selectively binds regions of a powder bed
6.
Direct Energy Deposition (LENS, LBMD)
A high-energy source fuses material as it is deposited
7.
Sheet Lamination (LOM, UAM)
Sheets of material are bonded and formed layer-by-layer